---
title: "Modelling influenza at the human-animal interface"
collection: talks
type: "Contributed talk"
permalink: /talks/Erice2015
venue: "Mathematical and Computational Epidemiology of Infectious Diseases (MathCompEpi) 2015, Ettore Majorana Foundation and Centre for Scientific Culture"
date: 2015-09-02
location: "Erice, Italy"
---

## Event webpage

More information here: [https://erice2015.wordpress.com](https://erice2015.wordpress.com)

## Event overview

The mathematical and computational modelling of the spread of infectious diseases is a research field that was both able to give an impetum to dynamical systems theory, and to give an important contribution to the epidemiology of infectious diseases. National and International health authorities routinely employ mathematical and computational epidemiology (MCE) in public Health decisions and policies. This influence in biomedicine is unparalleled in any other fields of mathematical biology.

Modern MCE is facing huge challenges, here we mention two. A first major critical issue is human mobility, whose understanding is the clue for predicting pandemics travelling and defining mitigation measures. On the other hand human behaviour and its relationship with the available information on the evolution of the epidemics is a second unsettled issue. However, many more challenges are being currently explored, and other will surely emerge in next future.

The aim of this international conference was twofold.

The first aim was to illustrate the major areas of research in MCE and the huge variety of tools and approaches that are currently employed. Models of various degrees of complexity are synergistically interplaying in this discipline.

The second and major aim, in line with the great tradition of the International Centre 'Ettore Majorana', was to foster frank peer-to-peer discussion between expert outstanding researchers and more junior investigators as well as PhD students.
